
General billing

Why didn't I get a bill this month?
If your minimum due is less than $5, we’ll carry that amount over to your next statement instead of sending you a bill that month. This won’t count against you as a missed payment, and we won’t charge a late fee.

You can still make a payment toward your minimum due or balance any time.


I made some recent changes that reduced my premium. Why didn’t it lower my bill?

Why did my bill amount change?
Your bill amount can change for several reasons at renewal or during your policy term.

If rates change or you add a driver to your policy, your auto premium may go up. Changes to how you get and pay your bill can also affect your installment fees.

Home renovations may cause your homeowners premium to change. Changing your due date could also cause you to be double billed. This happens when the last payment of your current policy and the first payment of your renewal are due at the same time.

 


I received a notice of nonpayment cancellation, or NPC. What do I need to do?

Why is my homeowners premium showing up on my bill when it’s paid by my mortgage?

What happens if I have a credit on my insurance account?

Need more information on how we bill?
Automatic payment plan
Collapse all

How can I set up an automatic payment plan, or APP?
You can set up automatic payments from usaa.com or the mobile app. Log on to your profile to set up an APP.

An APP saves you money on installment fees and helps you stay on top of your payments.

Keep in mind that if you set up an APP, it starts the next due date. You’ll need to pay your current due date manually.


How can I update my automatic payment plan, or APP?
It's easy to update your APP. Here's what you can do:

Change the due date: We'll update it on your next bill.
Update the payment method: We'll use your new payment method going forward.
Change the amount: You can choose to pay either the minimum due or your full balance. We'll update your automatic payment amount on your next bill.
Pause your automatic payments: You can pause payments for this bill. If you do, make a one-time payment to avoid any late fees. Your automatic payments will start again on your next bill.
Cancel your automatic payments: Only the policyholder can cancel automatic payments. If you cancel, you might lose your APP discount on your auto policy, and you could also be charged installment fees.
Express Pay
Expand all

What’s Express Pay?
Express Pay is a quick and easy way to pay for your auto or property insurance without logging on to your account.

It's for everyone – spouses, parents, other family members and friends can all quickly make payments with Express Pay.


What information do I need to use Express Pay?
You'll need your debit or credit card, Bill ID and ZIP code.

You can find your Bill ID and ZIP code on your billing statement:
Bill ID:

Find the section of your bill labeled "insurance bill."
Your Bill ID will be near that title.
ZIP code:
Find your address on the bill.
The ZIP code is at the end of your address.
If you don’t have your billing statement, you can find your Bill ID in the emails and other documents we’ve sent you.


What payment methods can I use?

Can I pay all my bills with Express Pay?

Can I set up automatic payments with Express Pay?

Do I get a confirmation or receipt?

Is there a fee to use Express Pay?

Can I schedule payments?
Installment fees
Expand all

Where and when will I find out if I have an installment fee?
You’ll have a line item titled “Installment Fee” on your insurance statement.

If you haven’t signed up for paperless statements and an APP, we’ll add the fee to your billing statement when we send it.


What are the fees for and how much are they?

How can I avoid paying an installment fee?

Why does USAA charge an installment fee?
We charge an installment fee to offset the costs of servicing one-time payments.

The cost of printing and mailing paper statements are significant. The labor and technology needed to process one-time payments also adds to our servicing costs.
 

Payments
Expand all

How do I make changes to or cancel a pending payment?
You can change or cancel a payment on usaa.com or the mobile app from bill pay. Find the payment in your recent activity and choose to modify or cancel it.

In most cases, if you pay from a bank account, you need to make changes at least 1 business day before the due date.

If you cancel your pending automatic payment, you’ll need to make a payment to keep the account current.
 


How do I add a new payment account for my USAA insurance policies?

I can’t make the minimum payment. What are my options?

Can I pay my auto and property bill with my spouse’s credit card?

Why am I restricted from using a bank account or personal check as my payment method?
Unpaid balances
Expand all

Why do I still have a balance after my policy was canceled?
You might still owe for the coverage you had before your policy was canceled. This may also include fees or adjustments.


Do I still owe money if I have active policies?

Where can I check if my policies are active or canceled?

If my policy was canceled, can I get coverage again?

What happens if I don’t pay my balance?  
Need more information on how USAA bills?
Learn how we bill, how you can pay and how we may be able to help if you need more time to pay.

Go to billing support
About
Perks
Newsroom
Careers
Accessibility
Security
Support
Mobile App
USAA on Facebook
USAA on Instagram
USAA on TikTok
USAA on X
USAA on YouTube
PrivacySite MapSite TermsEducational Foundation
Copyright © 2026 USAA
Related footnotes:
Membership eligibility and product restrictions apply and are subject to change.

Property and casualty insurance underwritten by United Services Automobile Association (USAA), USAA Casualty Insurance Company, USAA General Indemnity Company, Garrison Property and Casualty Insurance Company, NOBLR Reciprocal Exchange, based in San Antonio, Texas; USAA EU DAC (Europe), and USAA S.A. UK Branch (pending cancellation to align with the pending branch authorization application) and is available only to persons eligible for property and casualty group membership. Each company has sole financial responsibility for its own products.

Coverages subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.

NC